where I see the biggest unforced error
for sasum say is when they fight this
way now M maybe I'll be proven wrong but
this is so much money so much energy and
I see so many of the smartest Founders
in SAS saying AI stupid my competitors
have these dumb hallucinations it
doesn't work I don't need AI in my space
it doesn't make my product better maybe
you're right in 2024 may maybe maybe you
are right but you're going to lose that
deal eight times out of 10 when your
competitor that looks a lot like you
goes in and gets everyone excited about
efficiency for AI thank you for coming
out so I was thinking about the last
couple years when we got together in
Barcelona it was interesting time in
June of 2022 because everyone was still
growing like a weed but that the little
old stock market had fallen like
50% Cloud stocks so it was a weird time
2022 and the message in 2022 was like no
excuses keep going sure okay sorry you
can't raise it 27x AR like slack sold to
sales Force for 27 billion on a billion
Revenue sorry that era didn't last
forever like a lot of VCS were hoping it
did but everything was still pretty damn
good in 2022 and then last year the
message
was guys it's just harder it's just like
2017 2018 into 2019 was um and then I'm
thinking what's the message for this
year and I want to talk about it because
I think there's just a lot of things
going on some folks are actually doing
great which we'll talk about in a minute
there's a lot of Doom and Gloom on the
social media is on the x's on the
twitters linkedin's so B2B that
everyone's a Debbie Downer on LinkedIn
if that was the only way I got my
information from LinkedIn I think I
would jump jump into the tames and call
it a day but it's actually much more
Nuance there are plenty of folks that
are doing great even private companies
net scope which is security leader just
put out a press release yesterday
they're growing over 30% at 500 million
in Revenue 500 million in Revenue
there's plenty of we're going to talk
about that canva just said they're
growing over 40% at 2.3 billion in
Revenue at their user conference the
other day it isn't to say things are
hard they're just all over the place and
so the best advice I think I can give
you having been doing SAS for longer
than I want to admit is just build just
build when things literally when the
world ended in 2008 2009 actually wasn't
even that bad for SAS we could talk
about it during this event just keep
building when things crashed in 2016 was
only 6 months but in 2016 there was a
panic and I wasn't even following the
public markets it's I'm embarrassed to
saying we got into 2016 the saster
annual was in February 2016 that week
SAS stocks fell
50% one week it was a crash everyone
panicked people said no one's going to
buy software anymore the Panic lasted
about six months LinkedIn panicked and
sold to Microsoft really cheap 20 think
25 26 billion but it was a profitable
rocket ship with no need to sell they
were public but everyone panicked
everyone thought lasted about six months
now this one's different this one we're
going into year three
so I'm going to talk about the different
things going on but if I had to
summarize all of it you cannot control
everything you cannot control public
multiples you cannot control a lot of
stuff in the short term but you can
control whether you're more competitive
or less competitive you can comp you can
be more customer Centric you can keep
building and things will EB and flow
over time we've been doing this says 15
years I think it's a little longer they
will e and flow and if you keep your
head in the game and you increase your
competitive position even if things hard
for you they'll come back so that's my
best simplistic advice for these days is
just build I put this tweet together I
thought this kind of summarizes what I
wanted to chat about is three worlds
that we're living in today I don't know
if B to B to C and B to B to B actually
exist but I'm going to use him going
forward B2B to see is folks selling to
the Real World selling to the not not to
tech companies they're doing pretty good
and we'll go through some examples canva
was a great one but there's plenty of
others the overall I'm not exactly sure
how the London economy is doing but the
the US economy is close to record low
unemployment okay it's not perfect over
across the pond but it's pretty darn
good there are there's wobbles and we
did just convict an ex-president not
everything's normal or great but pretty
good in the real world in the real world
outside of tech 2021 was the opposite
the real world was okay but boy people
bought more software like 11 times an
hour in 2021 like Tech was overloaded
but BBC is pretty good to B to be I
thought it would have bounced back by
now I thought what would have happened
is look we've been through a cycle where
a lot of companies just cut vendors
maybe too much because and it's a trit
VC say but it's true you can't cut your
way to growth cutting does not produce
growth and people companies go through
moments where they have moments of panic
which I don't think is really happening
in a lot of companies because they sell
to end consumers or they just go through
moments where there are Zeitgeist which
is to rationalize vendors to cut vendors
and big public successful companies not
in Tech are just cutting their stack
from 200 apps or 300 apps to 50 or I'll
give some examples and that makes sense
and people overbought so when you
overbought in 2020 late 20 2021 it makes
sense for people to say there's just way
too many SAS apps Adam gross was the
interum co of Vimeo public company at
over 400 million he came to our SAS mam
event he said one of the things when I
started at Vimeo a couple months ago was
like we had 100 sass apps I didn't even
know why we had them
so even though he's a SAS guy since
incep I'm gon to cut I'm here as CEO he
just brought in the full-time coo I'm
going to cut like 50 of these because no
one can even explain to me why we bought
these so it makes sense we did that but
I thought we would bounce off that
process we would get through it we would
stop cutting and we would get back to
growth I thought that and I think a lot
of folks in impacted categories I
remember I did an interview you can see
it on YouTube maybe six months ago with
Henry schook one of the great Founders
Co of Zoom info and his point was listen
we've got we've bounced off the bottom
so we've got to go up from here
but we haven't seen that yet it hasn't
gotten better yet in a lot of bwbb I
think it will but I can't predict I
can't predict I don't think any of us
can predict well is why we have to build
and then there's this thing called Ai
and I just wrote WTF because there's a
lot of things going on in AI it's
terrific that we have 200x AR rounds
back it's great we'll talk a little bit
about that and we'll talk more about it
tomorrow but it's warping a lot of
things we think and in some ways
2021 uh the headlines the funding rounds
and everything Fields 2021 done all over
again just different for only for a
subset only for a subset this is my
slice world it's not monolithic and I
put this together I put a few leaders
here on the left and tweeting to others
here are some folks that are not selling
to other tech companies that are doing
pretty well canva 40% of 2.3 billion
it's pretty darn good profitable for
years toast selling to restaurants
growing 32% at 1.3 billion AR I invested
in a company that's adjacent to toast
called owner which is like marketing for
restaurants they're they've crossed 20
million they're growing almost 10% a
month every month it's a good company
but the point of the story is they
haven't seen any macro impacts because
their end customers are AR in't seen
there's some um Sara great Co and great
team we've had a lot of the team the
chief product officer did a great
session at sasra annual on how they do
five products which is a great one to
watch on YouTube 39% at 1.1 billion a
and that's the one in the middle or one
at the look at the top they're
aggressively hiring they're selling to
truckers and fleets and consumers that
are doing reasonably well 39% of 1.1
billion clavio who will be here and talk
about how they're going if you haven't
heard of clavio if you're in the
e-commerce world it is the most beloved
app people love clayo it's coming up on
a billion in Revenue the number one app
in the shop High ecosystem growth has
come down a little bit but 42% of 750
million and 30 some odd percent coming
up on a billion those are end consumers
Monday is always interesting a lot of
folks probably don't use Monday because
Monday Monday does a lot has a lot of
products but we can think of it as an
assana or a linear or lassan for
non-tech customers they started off we
did a great session with the co Ron at
San last year they started selling to
churches and folks like that and I don't
think churches are having a down year I
don't think they're having an up year
maybe they are having a down year maybe
donations are down but it's like the not
the same variability that our friends at
zoom and zoom info and others have so
they're on the way to a billion in
Revenue they're growing 34% and then the
whole world of security if you're not in
it you don't get in fact I'm not a
security expert but it's Evergreen the
threats keep going and caos have to keep
putting budget Z scaler said they're
growing 32% at 2.2 billion and it's
smaller competitors we talked about
private net scope over 30% at 500
million crowd strike and others there
there are others whiz is seems to be the
fastest growing software startup ever in
today's markets these are areas I call
them vertical SAS is less impacted B Tob
to see security it's pretty good here if
you're not in a pretty good space you
may be you may it may feel really hard
but realize it's not everybody like it
looks like on social media now B2B had a
rough
week and when I was starting to put this
think about this de a couple weeks ago I
didn't know but we'd have a week like
this this was a blood if if you don't
follow the public markets and hopefully
you don't as Founders I I would
encourage you to put your money into bti
the broad stock market and just invest
in your own stock and don't worry too
much cuz it'll come up and down but this
last week was nuts though [__] down 23%
[__] one of the great one of the great
Cloud stocks had consistently grown in
the 30s or higher great Co great team
everyone uses it there's competitors but
everyone uses [__] then just last week
they said we're only going to grow 17%
next year huge drop UI path huge drop
30% lots of issues with UI path which we
love Daniel d here last year excellent
session just came back as CEO the other
week growth is still good but uipath had
no net new customers last quarter no net
new customers now they did grow because
they they grew a lot of their accounts
which is the way a lot of us are still
growing at scale if we're not adding new
logos they're 5 million and up customers
are at a record size at uipath they 1
million is growing but no the net new
customers think how different that is
than canva or toast think how different
it is and and then Salesforce if you
didn't follow it good like you got other
stuff just go build but Salesforce lost
$50 billion in market cap 50 billion and
what happened they missed the quarterb a
little bit who cares what Mark said what
the team said is we're only going to
grow in the single digits next year only
grow in the single digits and why is
that bad and I thought about it a little
bit one obviously single digits is not
great it's not a growth stock it's at
the edge but real problem and I don't
think Wall Street thinks about this wall
just reacted that the growth was in
single Salesforce has never grown slowly
in its whole history but you think about
it Salesforce has gotten pretty
Enterprise they have 115 120% nrr you're
supposed to grow at least 15 to 20% if
you have 115 12% nrr and so it's a sign
that something's at least for the moment
broken in the system and what they
talked about at salesource what's
happening the deals that they projected
are closing they longer sales Cycles
blah blah blah it's harder out there
which we'll talk about but also the
deals are just smaller than they
projected deals are Contracting and a
lot of folks in Tech blame deal
contraction because of layoffs it's not
true it's not true there are far more
hiring going on in Tech even today than
layoffs so anyone that says oh we're
Contracting because all our customers
are doing layoffs it's an excuse even
Salesforce says it's an excuse it's not
true they're still hiring it's just
folks are managing their budget so
tightly they're saying we just we'll
take less seats to Salesforce this year
maybe our SMB team can just use Google
Sheets or I don't know what's going on I
don't know how you can contract but
they're Contracting their spend they're
Contracting their spend and so we're
going to see some brutal nrrs some
brutal Revenue retention because what I
think this overblown budget scrutiny but
brutal week but it ain't going to be
like this every week but it's a big one
but that contrast to the canvas and the
others it's super visceral it's super
visceral this is a slide if I want to
Buck Folks up if you're in a tougher
category this is a slide that I saw the
other day I invested I was the first
investor in a company called Revenue cat
which automates mobile subscriptions on
your phone so about 30% of all mobile
apps that have a paid subscription use
Revenue cat to manage it and why that's
interesting is that they have over
10,000 what they call B2B Toc apps
consumer though they call it consumer
sass I call B Toc over 10,000 so it's
pretty good slice 30% of this mobile
ecosystem and what they saw and because
and why this is interesting is because
consumer happens faster than B2B B2B
takes time right even Salesforce it's
multi-year cont contracts everyone says
how great service now is holding up
which it is service now 15x AR 99% logo
retention they also signed three-year
contracts at service now even if things
were tough at service now it's going to
take a while to see it and then it's
would take a while to Rebound in
consumer you can cancel in 60 seconds on
your phone so what did they see if you
look 2021 was great and then 2022 sucked
20 look how flu there was no growth and
then 2023 has been a rocket ship right
and I can tell you as an investor the
revenues track that too no no downturn
no downturn in this mobile economy one
of the early things I wrote on saster
and I think it's still true is that B2B
lags b2c by about two years it lags it
by about two years if 2023 was when
everything rebounded on these fast
Cycles maybe the simplistic way to look
at it is 2025 has got to be when B when
it gets easier for a lot of folks in
classic B2B that's the belief and I
think this dat at least suggest it so
that's my little sketch there so I think
we can believe that but to be clear and
sorio a little bit here's a few other
quotes just so you know it's not you
here's the yiny wrong on SE of HubSpot
this last quarter both actually HubSpot
and Salesforce saw a bump at the end of
the fiscal year in January 31st but it
didn't last right even though HubSpot
grew 23% of 2.5 billion weaker demand
longer sales cyers they're not they're
now having to do pilots at HubSpot which
they didn't used to have to do they're
having to sell to cios and multible
stakeholders so they've done well but
it's not easier for them and actually
hubs spots nrr has fallen to 100% so to
grow 23% they had to add 23% net new
customers I might be slightly off on the
number but it's it's exact almost
exactly that so in 2021 they had 110%
nrr it was like a record you can watch
the great session I did I guess we did
in 2022 after that but we did it with
daresh and Brian the co-founders they
were at 110 but the drop from 100 to 110
100 is a lot of extra work so they
haven't seen it gotten any
easier um here's Zoom info we talked
about Henry as it relates to nrr our SNB
business is challenged Zoom info's Tech
nrr is about 85% now about 85% down from
triple digits to 85% their non-te
customers are I believe are still
growing north of 20% but these the tech
ones are just they're all getting around
the room or the zoom and saying how can
we buy less Zoom info can can Mark and
Jason share a seat will Henry find out
what can we do it's not that they're
canceling Zoom info but they're so
aggressively cutting the spin that that
it's hitting them and and then here we
saw [__] actually lowered it even more
down to 12% growth they're modeling from
57% and this is consumption we thought
that your database there's only so much
you could do to manage the the spend if
you're growing but again [__] isn't
seeing more logo turn there everyone
saying how can we optimize workloads how
can we use [__] just less to save money
and we talked about Salesforce I can't
believe this will last I can't believe
large companies can spend their entire
lifetimes trying to manage their
workloads down on Mango we have to grow
but there is no I would have thought all
of these folks would be seeing the
bounce back back instead I think the
length of contracts and other things
have actually mean we're finally seeing
things tougher that actually started
maybe 18 months ago but they're only
appearing in the public market data
today and this one was this one was
interesting to see to be helpful not
that it's like good news but if you look
at the analyst's call everyone was
really on message but Mark benof just
went off he spent about 30 minutes
talking about how Salesforce is an AI
company now which it probably is but
it's not like it lifted their revenue
and he went on and on and then he was
actually very candid about their
pipeline which I thought was very
interesting he said two years ago 18
months ago they needed 2x pipeline
coverage so for every dollar they wanted
to close they needed 2x in their pipe it
can vary for you a lot of startups
actually you're lucky if you have 5x
like if 20% of your pipeline converts if
it's 25% that's pretty best of breed but
to some extent it matters how you define
pipeline what you put in it etc etc
Salesforce has a good brand and I think
they're pretty specific about what they
manage but it was 2x now it's 3x it's 3x
forget about the all the other issues
the Sal cycles and the deal compressions
they need to have 50% more pipe to hit
the same number if Salesforce does you
probably do too but it's a way to
understand for classic bwwb what it's
like out there went on and on about how
they need 3x um and it's harder on the
sales team harder on everyone but it was
it was great to get that level of kind
of transparency across this and here's
where AI confuses
everything
Gartner the other day May 20th this is
less than two weeks ago raised their
estimate for the amount of sasen this
year raised it raised it if you want if
you've been around for a while you can
make fun of Gartner a little bit but you
know what Gartner is the only one out
there that is surveying hundreds and
hundreds of cios and buyers every
quarter no one else is really doing this
G2 and others that are great do a little
bit of it but Gardner's been doing it I
think for over 130 years they've been
surveying CEOs cios every quarter and
the changes and the pulse is pretty
helpful and it was super interesting
it's a little hard to see in in this
chart but and I'm also color blind so I
don't know what colors these are but
what you can see is the one on the right
is them lifting the model for SAS that
it's going to grow 20% to$
675 billion this year so we're adding
120 billion in spend in SAS and that's
not infrastructure as they Define it
there's some overlap it's a it's a
little nichy which we talk about on the
right but pure SAS spending 20% oh sorry
to 2472 billion on the right so what's
happening here right it's pretty
confusing if we're adding 20% where is
this money going and to some extent it's
not clear some of it certainly endless
price hikes endless price increases all
people are still raising prices
everywhere even yesterday Spotify raised
prices again for the I think the third
time in three years so that's consuming
some of it but a lot of it is moving to
versions of AI and here I copy these
from jam and ball you don't have to
follow these details but this is growth
on the platform side this is azour and
Google cloud and
AWS but look at how much acceleration
the spend has been on Aur and Google
Cloud this is all AI this is all AI so
they bottomed out a year ago or a year
and a half ago but this AI spend this
amount of money is fueling this here
right obviously we've heard of this
little company NVIDIA that's been around
for a long time that's had a good run up
40 billion in one day um I guess it
balances out Salesforce but there's so
much money going here into this the
question is how as a startup how do you
benefit from it um salesource itself
isn't benefiting from it even though
it's building the applications Dell
actually got hit Dell fell 15% last week
Dell said the the good we're seeing
demand pick up but also it's more
expensive to provide servers for AI so
it's a wash for us so it's a little
murky who exactly is benefiting it but
one thing we know AI VCS are all over it
so there's one thing that's crystal
clear
and I think I I think there's a session
that we'll be doing on this tomorrow I'm
a little murky I'll let you know later
today but I really call it the hunt for
riches and this needs its own session to
dig into it but if nothing else is
happening especially folks for
fundraising this is where VCS are
deploying it's one of the three places
VCS are deploying money they're
deploying money into seed everything's
great we can chat about it for a minute
they're deploying money into their
existing portfolio that they winners
even though maybe only 10 or 20% of
their companies may be breaking out
they're flooding them with capital and
they're doing what appears to some of us
Old-Timers is crazy deals free AI 100x
200x deals and why why could Elon Musk
for xai raise at 18 billion with no
revenue and a brand new product that
seems high it's high for a seed round
isn't it I think I don't know anyone
from crunch base or cter here that got
the data on on seed rounds great things
like scale but a billion dollars
Excel putting an extra already the lead
investor put in an extra billion dollars
Philipe will be here he can tell us all
about it and why what's going on here
obviously you can see the dollars at
this term hyperscalers but at the cloud
leaders at Google cloud and azour
especially justify it but if open AI is
really doing two billion in essence in
18 months like that's the bad people
want to make this is how you make money
in Venture is you try to get some the
one that's going to 2 billion in 18 or
24 Mony when there's a paradigm shift
and you might lose on all the others
these are great do companies that seem
epic like poolside that are brand new
and have essentially no Revenue are they
worth 1.5 billion in 12 months maybe if
you've got the X CTO of of GitHub there
maybe but it's a bad it's like a super
speculative bet
but what's happened the one thing why
does 2024 in AI feel like 2021 a little
bit with all the unicorns one thing to
just just if I had to summarize all of
what's happening in VC is everyone
became a decacorn hunter in 2021 people
used to be unicorn Hunters Kristoff's
first investment was in zenes what were
they worth 800 million when they ipoed
something like
that yeah 800 now it's got to be 8
billion to get out of bed right it's
just not enough the funds got bigger Val
seed rounds what was the valuation at
zenes in the seat around 2
million a bit less a million something
if now the the zendesk would be 20
million what's that series a was three
okay three million yeah so great you
raise so it's 3 million then and if it's
30 million for the a today or 50 million
and everything's gone up 10x the exits
have to go up 10x too right and funds
are structured for this funds are
looking for 10 billion exits and it
actually puts a lot of pressure on folks
that are doing pretty good that just if
you if a v the only way a VC can make
money is not just if you exit for a bill
I which is pretty hard pretty hard to
exit for a billion but it has to be 10
billion almost any VC is going to be
looking at you say can you be worth1
billion dollar so think about that lens
and right now in SAS the problem let me
see if I have this on the slide uh I
might have it for a longer one I did so
sorry I'll flip back we may get into
this tomorrow how many there are SAS
companies worth more than 10 billion for
sure hubs spots worth 30 billion last
and 40 billion maybe 30 they had a drop
there's plenty of them snowflake data
dog so you can believe they're there in
SAS and related but there's tons of
really good ones that aren't worth 10
billion right Hashi Corp was the last
IPO of the 2020 W IBM just bought him
for six billion which is insane but it's
might not be enough for a big fund to
make any money right we've had two I
think I have a slide on here but we've
had two SAS IPOs since
2021 play that's here one of my all-time
favorite companies and
CEOs $6 billion market cap on 800
million in Revenue rubric one of the
best Founders $6 billion market cap on
500 something million in Revenue Rubik
was growing 50% at IPO clavo 70% those
companies aren't even worth 10 billion
and these sound like silly numbers as a
Founder but you have to understand like
that a lot of EC's might look are
looking at those deals the the clavio
and rubrics and saying it's not enough
for my $2 billion fund that's not enough
for your series B round at 100 you want
150 for your Series be great but if I
want to make 20 or need to make 20 or 30
or 40 excellent investment to work like
I need and clavio and rubric AR are you
really are you sure you're better than
clavio and rubric it's producing stress
if the clavos and rubrics which I think
should be 15x ar are better companies I
think they should be worth north of 10
billion if they're not where do you hunt
where do you hunt as a VC you hunt an AI
even though you might lose all your
money even though people are going to
lose so much money on these deals you in
in the way are structured now they're
permanently at least us style funds I
know there's smaller ones in Europe but
us style funds are permanently focused
on $10 billion outcomes even I would
argue Roger Arenberg who founded one of
the great early seed funds IIA Ventures
they did so many they did almost 20% of
the trade desk which is worth 35 billion
data dog and others he just did this
tweet response yesterday is any SE fund
North of 60 billion has to find1 billion
exits even a seed fund and we can walk
through some of that math tomorrow but
that's why you see these crazy you're
scratching like why are SEO and these
guys are pretty smart at Andre say why
are they doing these deals they're no no
one's a dummy Adventure if you think
someone's a dummy they're not dummies
but they are making bets and it's a hunt
for riches in AI the the thing I would
say to SAS folks and I pulled up this
company C3 aai if you haven't followed
it it's Tom seel's old company who
founded the original CRM that Salesforce
this place called seil he went really
early in Ai No One actually knows what
this company does but at least it's been
AI since Inception it's down 45% this
year so being AI does not necessarily
lead to riches Salesforce being highly
abled doesn't do it Dell doesn't do it
so my main point here to Founders is
there's two things about AI one you've
got to have ai parity with the
competition which is worth chatting for
a minute you've got to or you're going
to lose deals but changing your TLD or
your url or adding the slide you may
trick an investor or two don't give give
it a shot but it's not enough it's not
enough to say an AI company today for a
million reasons it's not enough because
everyone that needs to be an AI company
should be becoming one everyone should
be using apis everyone should be
enhancing their product but there there
there is there's there's a hunt for
riches but people aren't stupid it's got
to be real whatever real AI is it's got
to be real Ai and and if Mark benoff
can't convince Wall Street he's an AI
company now with all their investment
you you likely are not going to be able
to to to if it's not yourself okay maybe
just a couple other things I want to hit
and if we have anytime left we could
take some questions
this is a meta
question that people are talking about
but should be talking about even more
this is the mystery this goes back to
the Gartner growth of 20% it goes back
where's this budget coming from Ai and
people talk about there being
experimentation budgets I met when I was
in London with a wildly smart and
successful VC asking me how big cio's AI
budgets are and every CIO of as for has
no AI budget there's no no CEO went to
their C and said hey here's a couple
extra billion for AI it's just not the
way the Enterprise works but it's there
it's being repurposed it's being
repurposed there is a company I invested
in the post Sal space that they have one
of their 10 largest customers is strug
struggling a bit but public company they
went in and cut 30% of their post sales
apps and bought one for a million
dollars a year as their AI bet but where
did the money come from cutting cut they
cut core apps they cut 30 apps and
brought in one to free up the budget
right and this was a little question
from RBC capital and blueberg I would
question this money on AI is coming to
the expensive expansion in Salesforce it
may be it may be cutting back the extra
products they'd buy at Salesforce for AI
and Dell said the same thing and here
Viva Peter gastner one of the great SAS
CEOs Viva is a vertical SAS company only
raised about 3 million and it's worth 35
billion today um very specific the
biggest Pharma and biotech companies run
their business is on Viva he actually
used to be the VP of engineering or CTO
Salesforce even he's saying it's
competing priority like they're putting
off buying more and spending more with
Viva to do to manage their drug
Discovery and manage their processes for
AI so this the M the budgets are being
mixed up and returned
and two just two things on it this is
what's happening there is no magical AI
line budget at big companies there is no
magical thing stuff is being cut to fund
these initiatives and why a little bit
of it is fear that you've got to be
doing this right the companies have fear
cios have some fear but some of it is
huge efficiency promises so I'll give
you a quick example uh I'm on the board
of a company called gorgeous which is
the largest contact center in e-commerce
and they've got about 16,000 Shopify
customers coming up on a 100 million
revenue and they're very SNB like their
average deal size is 5K now used to be
3K it's actually 5K because of AI chat
about that but they just closed their
first 750k tcv deal 250k a year for
three years 750k that's a lot going up
market and where' this money come from
right turns out because of their AI
they're going to lay off 400 folks in
support 400
folks so let's 250k sounds like a lot of
money but it's a big company it's 20K a
month if you lay off Foreigner folks in
support and replace them with AI can you
free up 20K a month yeah the the human
impacts here are a little bit brutal I
remember in the early days of e
signatures which was about efficiency we
went out to Comcast one of our biggest
customers and they took us to a floor
which was huge it was
dark they flipped on the lights and
there all these empty file cabinets that
were replaced with Echo sign Adobe sign
and they're 80 people they didn't need
it wasn't 20 there 80 people they didn't
need filing their contracts for
broadband internet anymore the money
doesn't come out of nowhere so there are
some real human impacts to AI right
positive and that I personally I need a
lot of AI people because I can't get
anybody to do a lot of work I can't any
to like do our podcast or YouTubes like
I need help myself but vendors are
promising huge efficiency gains are they
working there's are we're already seeing
yo-yos we're already seeing in the
Enterprise a lot of frustrated customers
who are over promised by vendors that
are coming back and saying their initial
1.0 deployments did not work expensive
we're seeing that all across the the
space so I don't I think everything we
all know everything's getting better
let's not read too much into that but
it's
here the related point
that if I wanted to give some advice I
wanted to be Crystal Claren you can be a
little bit a lot of us in core B2B can
be a little cynical of AI right is it
really some for some of our apps it
won't make things any better right for
some things it's minor
but what is clear to me is if your
competitors are out there promoting
efficiency gains from Ai and you are not
and you do not have feature parody
you're going to lose this deal you are
going to lose this deal people want and
they and I know they the the initial
promises in 2024 aren't being met it's
frustrating customers but they know this
is a bet they have to make and they do
believe it's going to get better or at
least they hope it's going to get better
in 2025 and 2026 they see it and I where
I see the biggest unforced error for SAS
com to say is when they fight this wave
they fight this wave now M maybe I'll be
proven wrong but this is so much money
so much energy and I see so many of the
smartest Founders in SAS saying AI is
stupid everything my competitors have
these dumb hallucinations it doesn't
work I don't need AI in my space it
doesn't make my product better maybe
you're right in 2024 may maybe maybe you
are right I use canva every day I don't
really use their AI stuff I I don't know
if it's any good I use Loom all the time
I don't know if it's really makes my
loom experience any better I don't know
but you're going to lose that deal eight
times out of 10 when you're compe that
looks a lot like you goes in and gets
everyone excited about efficiency for AI
so don't do what do what you will just
build but don't fight this if you if
you're not AI first don't be AI first
but I know I'm being uh a little
redundant but this so important look at
your top five competitors do a sheet be
honest with yourself your product and
your co-founders what are they doing in
AI today and what are they promising in
the next 12 months if even if it's a
check the box feature you better darn
check it it's like going into a deal in
the Enterprise when you're not sock to
complying than they are or versions of
that if you've been in there you're just
going to lose the deal they're just say
I just don't trust you I just need it I
don't care if you're better or more
innovative I need the sock too so I
think everyone in the world should do
that for no other reason it's AI become
you're just going to lose to the
competition this one we hit but it's
helpful to see it here there's a few
things that are just making everything
also harder which is that the public
markets suck they just suck uh on a
bunch of levels uh multiples are low but
also we've only had two real IPOs and
you look if they were junky IPOs or
struggling companies one thing but only
ones that bothered IPO since hash 2020
were really good caveo and rubric two
two everyone else is waiting stripe is
waiting plaid is waiting kvok certainly
could have ipoed earlier two and a half
billion in Revenue growing 40% they're
waiting people are waiting but the ones
that did have $6 billion do market caps
on their way to a billion in Revenue
with top tier growth top tier nrr top
tier everything this is just a
drag on everything it's a drag on every
type of fundraising from series a later
and it's just a drag it's not going to
last this is a I think Tomas tungus just
put out a good summary of the data
yesterday you can see it on linkedin's
blog I think SAS IPOs are at a a 10 or
15 or 20 year low or long low or Tech
IPOs so it's not going to last but it is
tough out there there is very little
liquidity in the system and it's just it
it is creating subtle stresses like the
bar is just really high if you really
have to get to 600 million growing 50%
to IPO I know most of you are close
but it's a it's the most intimidating
bar in my career so it's just it is it
is what it is maybe I blotted this one
over but the multiples are still men I
didn't I've been talking about multiples
much more the last three or four years
at these events in saster but here's my
simple way of thinking about you this is
the bvp cloud index you can track it on
bester sites or other places the median
public SAS company is trading at 6X a
are the median now some are struggling
some are higher the a lot of the best
ones the samsar and others are trading
at 15 but this creates this makes it
really hard for PE for VCS to make money
it makes it hard for a lot of things to
happen in the system and if I had to
summarize all of this a lot of
Old-Timers will say hey this is just how
it was in 2016 or 2015 or 2014 or
2017 may may maybe this will there's
different ways to slice the data but I
think it won't get easier for us until
this is about 8X until we see 20 to 30%
reflation in multiples and it may sound
like just a number but it's not it makes
everything so much easier these
valuations work the capital raising
works the investment Works 6X is just
you're here I'm the the average folks
that attend the saster event I think is
around 5 million AR right works so hard
took you seven years you're worth 30
million it Con it's not that great it's
a bummer you want to be the good news is
you're going to keep building and
growing and you're going to go from five
and we'll see you at 10 the next year
and then 20 and 40 but it's tough for
the world that we got certainly got used
to last four years to operate well at 6X
um and uh so that's the one to look at
when this refl takes a little bit and is
it really all interest rates I'm no
longer sure is it really all this we're
no longer sure but 66 it's it's still a
tough world and maybe just two things to
summarize and again we I think as a
community we over talk about BC but it
is important in many levels if you're
fundraising or just to understand the
pulse of the system every VC that I know
wants to invest there's new VCS that
have only been in a couple years they've
got Capital they don't care about the
past there's folks like Kristof and
mothers here we've got many winners so
they still want to invest I don't know
any VC that doesn't have winners that
doesn't want to invest today so if folks
are saying VCS don't want to invest
that's wrong folks that have only lost
or got fired last week they don't really
want to invest but everyone that's been
around is looking they're always hunting
for winners but there's real stress in
the system I picked three recent
examples the one on the left shows
rolling irrs rates of returns for VCS
and it the way VCS calculate return is
different than than others but what you
can see is like in 2021 like VC returns
went crazy right what is this 80% and
this is why everyone raised like three
funds that year it was not actually the
real problem is that even LPS the folks
that give VC money thought this was
sustainable 80% returns are not what is
it who who can tell me what 80%
compounded over 20 years is it's like a
lot isn't it it's like infinity or
something like that I don't know what it
is but it's crashed right and so so I
real irrs everyone is full of [__] inv
Venture on Twitter oh all my investments
are so great I'm such a genius I own
0.01% of this unicorn I made so much
money but the real IRS when you blend it
all together they're negative so this is
just stress and BCS are getting a little
bit of a pass from their own investors
limited partners who are saying look
we're going to give you a mulligan in
some cases on One Fund but it's just
stress it is stress it is stress a
little bit on early stage funds but it's
huge stress on grow funds which did lots
of unicorns hundreds of unicorns and
it's going to take them a decade to
figure out what to do with Fallen
unicorns they they it's a decade and
here's just two other examples on the
right what we're seeing stress is
Squarespace I don't know if you guys use
we use Squarespace at saster for a lot
of our sites we use all these products
they're going private in a$7 billion
transaction sounds great 7 billion but I
think they're at 1.3 1.4 billion growing
20 something per a month it's a and
that's a premium to where they were
trading they were trading at like Forex
maybe even less net of tax
so why go like everyone we're talking
about going IPO to get liquidity to do
m&a to why why go private it is a sign
of stress in the system it's a sign that
the public markets are not working for
Squarespace for a variety of reasons
there's a whole bunch of things there's
the low multiples we talked about
there's also such insane pressure on
public companies to be very profitable
today it's too much Salesforce is
pushing toward 40% margins everyone
needs to be above 30 it sounds great it
makes Wall Street happy but where are
you going to invest if you can't hire
anybody so I actually be a lot of public
ass companies are in a quiet Decay State
because they're not hiring anybody new
there there's too much efficiency and so
what do you do one option is to go
private give me three or four years to
just invest instead of having to do 30%
30 C cents out of every dollar go to
profits I'll drop that to 10 cents or
zero grow faster and then go publica
like a two billion or three billion
that's the decision they're making
especially because the founder of square
stat has been there since day one and
actually he had an insane incentive
package when they went IPO was almost
like Elon Musk if you read it there's a
SAS post on it if you look at the first
one he had these tiered grants Elon had
it and I think if he grew it to 20 or 30
billion he like doubled or tripled his
Equity stake so to to give that up and
go private it's a big give up that that
there's stress in the system and then
this
one boy this one's a tough one a whole
bunch of cloud leaders also before
Squarespace have gone private avalara
plural site Zend went public for 10
billion I don't know all the details of
all the deals but a lot of them were
fueled with cheap debt that now has to
be refinanced at much higher prices if
you if you bought a company for three or
four billion as a private Equity Firm
but you really only put in 20% so maybe
you put in 800 million or a billion you
borrowed three or four billion at 2% and
now you have to refinance it at eight
the problem is a lot of these tax
companies don't generate they're they're
they're profitable but they don't
generate enough necessarily to service
the debt so this one was a shocker even
though it didn't get a ton of news this
is this a canary in the co Miner I don't
know Vista which is one of the two or
three biggest folks that buy SAS
companies Vista Tomo Bravo a few others
they bought plural site they're riding
the entire 3.5 billion investment to
zero higher invest I don't know what
plal site's doing today but we wrote
them up on S I think when they were last
doing public they were doing 250 million
or so and they claimed they had 27%
profit margin so they're generating for
40 50 million 60 million cash a year but
whatever happened here wasn't enough so
they're walking away from $3.5 billion
investment I don't know how big this
fund is but I know it's sub20 that's a
lot to lose if a lot of these deals
don't work out I was Ching earlier this
week in London with someone that works
at a Vista competitor or similar and he
was just saying it's just so
stressful it's so stressful there
because they don't they bought all these
companies that are good but between the
cost of servicing the debt and the
revenue so down this is stressful for a
bunch of reasons these firms are not
engineered to lose to have multiple
losses like this seed funds can lose 40%
of their 60 even half of a seed funds
deals can make no money it's those
usually end up being half the money
because your winners concentrate your
money but a seed fund you can write off
half your Investments the PE guys can't
write off half their Investments there's
just there's no returns and and this is
stressful in general but and I'll wrap
up on this point if we're done with time
this is one of the this has been one of
the Great liquidity outcomes options you
don't have to always IPO and you don't
have to worry if Adobe can't acquire
figma or other issues you don't have to
worry if Google won't buy you if P was
there and P all of my billion dollar
exits as an investor have come to P
firms a lot of them from Vista thank you
another one of my early Investments got
acquired for 300 million a few Works Ago
by a PE firm they worked for years the
growth great company at 30 million
growth was good but not great but got
bought for 300 million 10x by pe firms
if this stops working and it started
working around 20 2222 it's just more
stress there's fewer exits it's tougher
onest everyone wants to deploy money
this to just rais another 20 billion
like it's there but just understand that
there's stress across the system and
sorry I went a little long so I'm just
going to summarize these last ones this
one is a just it's just direct I just
put this up on saster this week but
emergence put together a bunch of data
emergence they were my investor and they
invested in a ton of the early SAS
leaders from viva to Bill to Yammer and
others they actually went to I think 20
or 30 seed VCS and got data from over
600 SAS startups that were
venture-backed so this is not normal
these are folks that about 20 really
good VCS initialized Cowboys and others
all gave all of their data un automized
so these are good ones
and they redid the data for me and the
question is like how many of them are
fundable this is just one last takeaway
here it's tough and so I asked him to
redo it by top desile and so there's a
lot of data here and you can look at the
slides later and we may be over but but
if you squint a little bit this is the
top this is the top 10% of this top 10%
of all venture back startups by top tier
seed Funds top 10% Venture back by top
how are they growing in today's macro
Market less than 1 million 120 30% a
year so try to do 123% a year but to be
more specific for later rounds from the
1 to five 166% 5 to 20 the the best ones
are still doubling and after 20 only 42%
so this is top
desile so if we go back and we we will
talk if we have if we have this session
tomorrow we'll talk more about it VCS
still need triple triple double to make
money they need you to triple and triple
after 1 million Revenue in double it's
okay if there's bumps but that's what it
needs to be to IPO in less than a decade
and so roughly you got to be
doing 166 or 200% in this first group
100% in 5 to 20 and probably closer to
60% in the growth stage to be
fundable so looking this would say maybe
10 to 15% because this is a top DL this
is just enough to raise money this is
just enough to meet the Venture bar be
wared be if you have raised seed round
is almost as easy to raise as ever to
I'm not saying it's easy but there's so
many seed investors and so many folks
want to do it realize your next round is
almost certainly going to be much harder
than you thought if the only the top
desile of the top seed funded ones are
at triple double double the bar is
really high and all these and so just
assume the next round isn't coming and
if you don't know ask your investors
honestly don't make push put them on the
spot ask them am I fundable because this
is probably the toughest level in my
career top 10 10 to 15% that already
have Venture backed are in a position
today to raise another round now I will
say not I don't want to be too Gloom
almost every founder I know has gone
through periods when they were unfund I
had is my five years my last company
before was acquired by Adobe I think
three of the years we weren't fundable I
raised the years we were fundable and
then I went profitable because I didn't
want to deal with the stress I don't
most startups are not fundable every
year for a lot of reasons but be very
cognizant if you are don't waste energy
don't waste drama don't overspend your
cash if you're simply not in this top
desk Tyler better because it's almost
certainly not going to happen it doesn't
matter how likable you are it doesn't
matter how pretty your deck is it
doesn't matter how many people you meet
for coffee this the barn it's harder to
meet now than it has been that sort let
me summarize just build bbdc did come
back fast that's why I'm not like a good
better but I'm cautiously optimistic on
202 I'm cautiously optimistic that if
BDC came back two years ago 2025 people
are going to stop cutting everything and
spend more um IPO and liquidity sucks
vot losing three and a half billion on
plural site sucks two IPO you have to be
over 50% growth at 500 million to IPO
sucks but some really good ones coming
canvas strip figman others I think
people are going to get excited people
are going to get greedy again which we
need the final just pointed but there
stuff multiples are meh the fundraising
is hard a lot of the stuff you cannot
control keep building it takes 10 years
to get anywhere good in SAS 7 to 10
years keep building be cognizant of the
competition be better at the competition
and you get multiple chances at this the
pendulum swings back and forth you can
have it but everyone has a year of hell
it will come back and for the most for
many of us we just have to push through
some macro challenges we can't do
anything about so thanks everybody thank
you